Welcome back.
So there is a bit more syntax to try and accept that I just wanted to highlight.
We've seen the top two but we can also add in else.
And finally and neither of these have to be there but let me just show you how it works.
If you can remember way back when when we were doing the guessing game we were asking the user for input
and then we tried to convert that number or whatever they typed in to an int.
But if the user didn't type in an int for example if they just typed nothing and we tried to turn that
into an ant that causes an error.
So what we could do is use a try except to prevent that so we could do something like try.
And then we'll just do inputs.
Please enter a number and then save that to a variable.
Let's call it numb equals and then let's turn it into an end like this.
So we'll try to ask them for an input and then turn it into an end.
So this shouldn't cause any problems but the conversion to an ENT might.
So if we encounter a problem.
For now we'll just leave it as Except let's just start by printing.
That's not a number.
Something like that.
OK.
So on its own if we run this right now on three please enter number for I type 10 were all good but
if I type A It tells me that not a number.
So already this could help us with that guessing game.
Just adding and try and Except instead of our code breaking.
When you try and convert input or whatever the user types to an end we now could handle it what would
we actually want to do.
Well we would probably have this in a loop and then repeat the loop.
But for now I'll come back to that.
I just want to show else.
And finally so if we put Elsin here we put some code I'm in the else and I run this again and we clear
my terminal X in my room.
So if I type nine I get I'm an else if I type a SD I don't.
So this shows us that else we'll run when Except it does not.
So try will run and it's good to see if it works or if there's a problem if there's a problem except
we'll run if there's not a problem.
Else we'll run.
And that brings us to finally and finally we'll run.
No matter what after this.
So in here I'll do a print and we'll just write.
I don't know.
Runs no matter what.
OK.
So now if we try one more time if I enter a valid number like 12 we get the else and we get.
Finally if I enter an invalid number just by hitting enter too soon we get that's not a number.
So that's from the accept and then runs no matter what from the finally.
OK.
So hopefully that's clear try.
We'll attempt to do something if there's a problem except runs if there's not a problem else runs and
no matter what finally runs.
So most commonly used I try and accept.
Definitely but you should know these exist.
And if I did want to make this right now this runs one time but for a guessing game example we don't
just want to give up on the user if they enter something like S and that's not a number we should ask
them again.
So what we could do.
Copy this comment that part out is something like this while true repeat this entire thing.
But we don't want to just repeat it forever.
It's an infinite loop.
So when do we want to break out.
Well when this part runs.
So instead of Aiman else let's say good job.
You entered a number and then break.
And that should stop the loop and let's see what happens right now.
So I'm going to run it again.
Please enter a number if I enter a number please enter a number again if I enter something like that.
But as soon as I enter a number good job you entered a number that's the else.
So we break out but it's important to know the FINALLY still runs runs no matter what.
But we're now out of the loop.
So then down here if we printed something like rest of game logic try it again.
This time I don't know f OK.
And then I enter eight.
That's my actual guess.
Good job you entered a number from the ELSE ARE FINALLY around and then the code after the blue runs.
OK.
So you can see how this is useful.
Like I said finally it's not as commonly used in my experience but this whole pattern especially when
you're dealing with user input and the tendency for users to get things wrong more than once.
This is a common structure to have a loop like this while true and then you break out if nothing went
wrong.
But if there's a problem then the loop just runs again and you give the user feedback to explain that's
not a number or whatever the problem is.
And a small improvement we can make.
Rather than accepting all errors here.
What kind of error would cause what's the error.
We're really concerned about it's a value error.
So that would be when you know a user enters a string which is the right type so it's not a type error
but it's the it needs to be a number string that makes sense needs to be a numeric string rather than
a letter.
So that's a value.
And just double check it still works.
So if I cause a problem we get that's not a number and that's coming because we are accepting value
errors.
OK so one more example I have for you I'm going to make a new file called divide Y and we're going to
define a really simple function called divide and this is still a silly example but it's a little more
involved this more than one type of error that we're going to accept.
And let's say it takes two numbers like a and b and the whole idea is that we would call it something
like this one comma too.
All right and that should return to us point five.
Very simple.
But if I pass in something like one to about about S.R.O that causes an error.
What about a divided by two.
So we're going to write some logic to check for those problems.
OK.
So first up all that we're going to do is right.
Try a.
Divide by B and we'll return that and we can just put them 1 except in here which is not a good idea
for the most part.
There's more than one error.
Well let's just print something went wrong.
OK so let's try running print of divide one comma two and then the same thing with one comma zero.
So we get 0.5 and then we get something went wrong.
And we also get that none because we tried to print something and nothing came back.
Don't worry about that.
So it's working here but all we're doing is saying something went wrong.
And instead of doing that we want to be very explicit.
And I believe it's called Zero division error.
So instead accept only that error and we'll print for now don't divide by zero please.
And now if we run this Roggio does we get don't divide by zero please.
OK.
That still doesn't handle everything because if I tried to do print 1 divided by a and I run it now
we get type error on operand types.
So let's just add another except for a type error.
Just do it after the line except type error.
And then this time let's print a and b must be ints or floats something like that.
Now if we run it we get and B must be int or folks.
So now we are accepting two different errors and once one change we could make not to make this a better
function really but just to use an else.
I'll save this to a variable called result and then in the else I will print a little f string that
says something like a divided by B is result just so that we're doing something a bit different than
just the traditional division that we wouldn't even need this for.
Now if we test it out we get one divided by two is 0.5.
And the second one is causing this error.
One last thing to show you if we actually want the error itself that is triggering this we can add an
as.
So except the type error as.
And I think most of the time I C E R R and we can print e r r or do something with it like this.
And so now if I caused a type error like I am here I would just comment that when out we get and B must
be folks we wrote that and then we printed the error which is unsupported operand types for division
and string.
So inside the official division function the operator.
There's a line that is raising a type error.
And basically this is what's being passed into that race and we can do the same thing for zero division
error if we want it to.
And the other thing that we could do was show you a second example is combine the errors into a single
line with a tuple.
So do type error like that and then I could get rid of this.
But the thing is then we kind of have to be more general about the problem just say something went wrong
and we can do it as error and then print error afterwards.
But we can't specifically write a message appear that says he divided by zero or that was a type error
and thus we could have an if statement and check is error type error where he's in his error.
A zero division error but I prefer just to catch individual errors separately.
Now if we run it we get something went wrong on supporting the operand types and if we also divide by
zero run the same code we get the first little error and then the second time something went wrong.
Division by zero.
OK.
So the point of that was to show you that you can accept more than one error you need a tuple using
a single except But you could also just chain together multiple excepts if you are actually doing different
things.
So in this case we're just printing but we might want to call some other code only if we get a type
error versus if we get a zero division error.
We want to print something.
So you can use more than one except you can use a single one and just use that tuple also.
You can name the area give it a name with as and then refer to it inside of that except.
All right.
So that's pretty much it for try and except blocks.
Next I'm going to show you something called PDB Python debugger debugger and you'll be able to step
through your code one line at a time using PDB.
So you then.